syllabus.md, before:

# Wentworth Institute of Technology

## Department of Engineering and Computer Science

## Course: COMP1050 - Fall 2020

## Instructor

John Puopolo ("Mr. P")<br/>
<puopoloj1@wit.edu>

## Class Schedule
Class schedule here

## Course Description
This course is an advanced introduction to Computer Science. It focuses on Object-Oriented Programing (OOP). Topics include abstraction and encapsulation, classes and methods, objects and references, overloading, inheritance, polymorphism, interfaces, console/file input/output, dynamic data structures, generics, and GUI applications.

## Course Prerequisities
* COMP1000 Computer Science I

## Course Web Site
The course web site can be found here: <br/>
<http://wit.jpuopolo.us/comp1050/><br/>

It contains links to the course textbook, slides, suggeseted reading
materials, etc.

## Course Objectives
At the completion of this course, the student should be able to:
* Describe the differences between traditional programming and object-oriented programming
* Explain concepts related to object-oriented programming, including classes, objects, methods, inheritance,
polymorphism, interfaces, overloading vs. overriding, and encapsulation
* Develop and analyze programs that make use of abstract data types (e.g. lists, sets, maps)
* Design and implement applications with a GUI interface

## Instructional Methodologies
This course will combine traditional lecturing with hands-on assignments that reinforce the lecture material. In particular, lectures will focus on concepts and ideas while exercises and assignments will provide concrete experience and skills. Students will also have a term project to apply learned skills to interesting questions.

## Attendance Policy
Students are expected to attend classes regularly, take tests, and submit assignments and other work at the times specified by the instructor. Students who are absent repeatedly from class will be evaluated by faculty responsible for the course to ascertain their ability to achieve the course objectives and to continue in the
course. Instructors may include, as part of the semester's grades, marks for the quality and quantity of the student's participation in class. At the discretion of the instructor, a student who misses 15% of class may be withdrawn from the course by the instructor. A grade of WA will appear on the student’s official transcript as a result.

## Grading Policy
This class with teach theory with an emphasis on practical application. As such, your grade will be based on 2 exams, programming assignments, and a final project. 

## Grading System
Wentworth's official grading system can be found here: <br/>
<https://catalog.wit.edu/academic-policies-procedures/grading/>

## Drop/Add
Students should check the academic calendar to confirm the add/drop deadline. Dropping and/or adding courses is done online. Courses dropped in this period are removed from the student’s record.

**Non-attendance does not constitute dropping a course.** If a student has registered for a course and subsequently withdraws or receives a failing grade in its prerequisite, then the student must drop that course. In some cases, the student will be dropped from that course by the Registrar. However, it is the student’s responsibility to make sure that he or she meets the course prerequisites and to drop a course if the student has not successfully completed the prerequisite. The student must see his or her academic advisor or academic department chair for schedule revision and to discuss the impact of the failed or withdrawn course on the student’s degree status.

## Make-Up Policy
All assignments have a specific due date and time. Submissions will be accepted after the deadline with varied
penalty. The penalty will be:

* 20% off penalty (< one day)
* 30% off penalty (< two days)
* 40% off penalty (< three days)
* 50% off penalty (if more than three days)

For example, an on-time submission might receive a grade of 90 points. The same assignment submitted after the deadline and less than one day would receive 72 point (90 * 0.8).

Students who miss scheduled lab assignments or exams will not, as a matter of course, be able to make up those
lab assignments or exams. If there is a legitimate reason why a student will not be able to complete a lab
assignment on time or not be present for an exam, then they should contact the instructor beforehand. Under
extreme circumstances, as decided on a case-by-case basis by the instructor, students may be allowed to make up
lab assignments or exams without first informing the instructor.

## Academic Support
The Center for Academic Excellence facilitates Wentworth students’ academic success and helps them to achieve their full learning potential. Students may choose to receive individual assistance through one-on-one tutoring in many subjects, including math, science, writing, and major classes. In addition, the Center for Academic Excellence offers Facilitated Study Groups (FSGs), tutor-led study tables, academic workshops, and learning-strategy consultations. The peer-tutoring program is certified by the College Reading and Learning Association’s International Tutor Training Certification program. To make an appointment or to review our drop-in offerings, please visit www.wit.edu/cae. For additional assistance or support on subjects not listed, please reach out via email at cae@wit.edu.

## Academic Honesty Statement
Students at Wentworth are expected to be honest and forthright in their academic endeavors. Academic dishonesty includes cheating, prohibited collaboration, coercion, inventing false information or citations, plagiarism, tampering with computers, destroying other people's coursework or lab or studio property, theft of course materials, or other academic misconduct. If you have any questions, contact your professor prior to submitting an assignment for evaluation. See your academic catalogue for a full list of definitions and the WIT Academic Honesty website for the procedures: wit.edu/academic-honesty.

## Student Accountability Statement
Behavior unbecoming a student is any violation of a published Wentworth policy in an academic environment, and/or any behavior that individual faculty or staff determines is unacceptable in his or her classroom, laboratory, or other academic area or function. Behavior unbecoming a student in an academic environment will not be tolerated. Violations of behavioral expectations may be forwarded to the Office of Community Standards for disciplinary action.

Wentworth takes violations of academic dishonesty and misconduct very seriously. Sanctions for such violations include, but are not limited to, a grade of “F”, removal from a course, Institute suspension, or Institute expulsion.

## Wellness and Disability Services
College can be challenging, and it is common to feel overwhelmed or stressed at times. If these feelings are related to course work or academic performance, please talk to me. For more significant mental health concerns, the **Center for Wellness and Disability Services (003 Watson Hall, 617-989-4390)** provides free and confidential mental health counseling.

If you or someone you know needs support around thoughts of suicide, the following resources are available:

* Center for Wellness and Disability Services, Watson 003, 617-989-4390, M-F 8:15-4:45
* Campus Police, First level of 610 Huntington Avenue, 617-989-4444, 24/7
* Samaritans, call or text 1-877-870-4673
* Crisis Text Line, text “start” to 741-741
* National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, call 1-800-273-8255
* GLBT Youth Hotline, call 1-866-488-7386
* Beth Israel Deaconess Emergency Room, 190 Pilgrim Rd Boston, MA

Students requiring academic accommodations must provide an official accommodation memo from the **Center for Wellness and Disability Services** and contact me privately to discuss logistics.

## College of the Fenway Students
If you are enrolled in this course through COF Cross Registration, notify your course instructor. Please provide her/him with your email address to be sure that you receive course information in a timely way. You should also discuss how to access online applications that might be used in the course.

## Weekly Schedule
| Week | Topic | Reading | Assignment & Notes |
| :----: | :----- | ------- | ------------------ |
| 1 | Fundamentals of Programming & Java SDLC | Ch. 1-8 | *Syllables* Overview |
| 2 | Object-Oriented Programming & Regex | Ch. 9-10 | *Syllables* Due |
| 3 | Inheritance & Polymorphism | Ch. 11 | *Flesch-Kincaid* Due |
| 4 | Abstract Classes, Interfaces | Ch. 13 | *Fractions* Due |
| 5 | Exam 1 Review | Prepare exam notes | Exam 1 (2nd class) |
| 6 | Lambdas, Java FX & GUI Basics | Ch. 14 | *Chess* project overview |
| 7 | Generics, Collections | Ch. 19 | *Chessman* & *Board* classes, render *Board* |
| 8 | Collections & Iterators| Ch. 20 | *Pawn* & *Rook* classes, render starting positions  |
| 9 | Queues, Sets, Maps | Ch. 20-21 | *Knight* & *Bishop* classes, render starting positions |
| 10 | Recursion | Ch. 18 | *Queen* & *King* classes, render starting positions |
| 11 | Exam 2 Review | Prepare exam notes | Exam 2 (2nd class) |
| 12 | Basics of Functional Programming & Streams API | Class Notes | Add *Game* and *Player* |
| 13 | Project Consulting | *None* | Add GUI piece movement, 2 humans can play on same computer|
| 14 | Java Networking | *None* | EXTRA CREDIT: Add Chess server for remote play |
| 15 | Project Consulting | *None* | EXTRA CREDIT: Add saving and loading of games |

Commit message:

Change project from chess to Mastermind.

syllabus.md, after:

# Wentworth Institute of Technology

## Department of Engineering and Computer Science

## Course: COMP1050 - Fall 2020

## Instructor

John Puopolo ("Mr. P")<br/>
<puopoloj1@wit.edu>

## Class Schedule
Class schedule here

## Course Description
This course is an advanced introduction to Computer Science. It focuses on Object-Oriented Programing (OOP). Topics include abstraction and encapsulation, classes and methods, objects and references, overloading, inheritance, polymorphism, interfaces, console/file input/output, dynamic data structures, generics, and GUI applications.

## Course Prerequisities
* COMP1000 Computer Science I

## Course Web Site
The course web site can be found here: <br/>
<http://wit.jpuopolo.us/comp1050/><br/>

It contains links to the course textbook, slides, suggeseted reading
materials, etc.

## Course Objectives
At the completion of this course, the student should be able to:
* Describe the differences between traditional programming and object-oriented programming
* Explain concepts related to object-oriented programming, including classes, objects, methods, inheritance,
polymorphism, interfaces, overloading vs. overriding, and encapsulation
* Develop and analyze programs that make use of abstract data types (e.g. lists, sets, maps)
* Design and implement applications with a GUI interface

## Instructional Methodologies
This course will combine traditional lecturing with hands-on assignments that reinforce the lecture material. In particular, lectures will focus on concepts and ideas while exercises and assignments will provide concrete experience and skills. Students will also have a term project to apply learned skills to interesting questions.

## Attendance Policy
Students are expected to attend classes regularly, take tests, and submit assignments and other work at the times specified by the instructor. Students who are absent repeatedly from class will be evaluated by faculty responsible for the course to ascertain their ability to achieve the course objectives and to continue in the
course. Instructors may include, as part of the semester's grades, marks for the quality and quantity of the student's participation in class. At the discretion of the instructor, a student who misses 15% of class may be withdrawn from the course by the instructor. A grade of WA will appear on the student’s official transcript as a result.

## Grading Policy
This class with teach theory with an emphasis on practical application. As such, your grade will be based on 2 exams, programming assignments, and a final project. 

## Grading System
Wentworth's official grading system can be found here: <br/>
<https://catalog.wit.edu/academic-policies-procedures/grading/>

## Drop/Add
Students should check the academic calendar to confirm the add/drop deadline. Dropping and/or adding courses is done online. Courses dropped in this period are removed from the student’s record.

**Non-attendance does not constitute dropping a course.** If a student has registered for a course and subsequently withdraws or receives a failing grade in its prerequisite, then the student must drop that course. In some cases, the student will be dropped from that course by the Registrar. However, it is the student’s responsibility to make sure that he or she meets the course prerequisites and to drop a course if the student has not successfully completed the prerequisite. The student must see his or her academic advisor or academic department chair for schedule revision and to discuss the impact of the failed or withdrawn course on the student’s degree status.

## Make-Up Policy
All assignments have a specific due date and time. Submissions will be accepted after the deadline with varied
penalty. The penalty will be:

* 20% off penalty (< one day)
* 30% off penalty (< two days)
* 40% off penalty (< three days)
* 50% off penalty (if more than three days)

For example, an on-time submission might receive a grade of 90 points. The same assignment submitted after the deadline and less than one day would receive 72 point (90 * 0.8).

Students who miss scheduled lab assignments or exams will not, as a matter of course, be able to make up those
lab assignments or exams. If there is a legitimate reason why a student will not be able to complete a lab
assignment on time or not be present for an exam, then they should contact the instructor beforehand. Under
extreme circumstances, as decided on a case-by-case basis by the instructor, students may be allowed to make up
lab assignments or exams without first informing the instructor.

## Academic Support
The Center for Academic Excellence facilitates Wentworth students’ academic success and helps them to achieve their full learning potential. Students may choose to receive individual assistance through one-on-one tutoring in many subjects, including math, science, writing, and major classes. In addition, the Center for Academic Excellence offers Facilitated Study Groups (FSGs), tutor-led study tables, academic workshops, and learning-strategy consultations. The peer-tutoring program is certified by the College Reading and Learning Association’s International Tutor Training Certification program. To make an appointment or to review our drop-in offerings, please visit www.wit.edu/cae. For additional assistance or support on subjects not listed, please reach out via email at cae@wit.edu.

## Academic Honesty Statement
Students at Wentworth are expected to be honest and forthright in their academic endeavors. Academic dishonesty includes cheating, prohibited collaboration, coercion, inventing false information or citations, plagiarism, tampering with computers, destroying other people's coursework or lab or studio property, theft of course materials, or other academic misconduct. If you have any questions, contact your professor prior to submitting an assignment for evaluation. See your academic catalogue for a full list of definitions and the WIT Academic Honesty website for the procedures: wit.edu/academic-honesty.

## Student Accountability Statement
Behavior unbecoming a student is any violation of a published Wentworth policy in an academic environment, and/or any behavior that individual faculty or staff determines is unacceptable in his or her classroom, laboratory, or other academic area or function. Behavior unbecoming a student in an academic environment will not be tolerated. Violations of behavioral expectations may be forwarded to the Office of Community Standards for disciplinary action.

Wentworth takes violations of academic dishonesty and misconduct very seriously. Sanctions for such violations include, but are not limited to, a grade of “F”, removal from a course, Institute suspension, or Institute expulsion.

## Wellness and Disability Services
College can be challenging, and it is common to feel overwhelmed or stressed at times. If these feelings are related to course work or academic performance, please talk to me. For more significant mental health concerns, the **Center for Wellness and Disability Services (003 Watson Hall, 617-989-4390)** provides free and confidential mental health counseling.

If you or someone you know needs support around thoughts of suicide, the following resources are available:

* Center for Wellness and Disability Services, Watson 003, 617-989-4390, M-F 8:15-4:45
* Campus Police, First level of 610 Huntington Avenue, 617-989-4444, 24/7
* Samaritans, call or text 1-877-870-4673
* Crisis Text Line, text “start” to 741-741
* National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, call 1-800-273-8255
* GLBT Youth Hotline, call 1-866-488-7386
* Beth Israel Deaconess Emergency Room, 190 Pilgrim Rd Boston, MA

Students requiring academic accommodations must provide an official accommodation memo from the **Center for Wellness and Disability Services** and contact me privately to discuss logistics.

## College of the Fenway Students
If you are enrolled in this course through COF Cross Registration, notify your course instructor. Please provide her/him with your email address to be sure that you receive course information in a timely way. You should also discuss how to access online applications that might be used in the course.

## Weekly Schedule
| Week | Topic | Reading | Assignment & Notes |
| :----: | :----- | ------- | ------------------ |
| 1 | Fundamentals of Programming & Java SDLC | Ch. 1-8 | *Syllables* Overview |
| 2 | Object-Oriented Programming & Regex | Ch. 9-10 | *Syllables* Due |
| 3 | Inheritance & Polymorphism | Ch. 11 | *Flesch-Kincaid* Due |
| 4 | Abstract Classes, Interfaces | Ch. 13 | *Fractions* Due |
| 5 | Exam 1 Review | Prepare exam notes | Exam 1 (2nd class) |
| 6 | Lambdas, Java FX & GUI Basics | Ch. 14 | *Mastermind* project overview |
| 7 | Generics, Collections | Ch. 19 | Game piece classes: *GameBoard*, *CodePeg* and *KeyPeg* |
| 8 | Collections & Iterators| Ch. 20 | Add UI for options: number of guess rows, repeat colors allowed. Render board with various peg configurations. |
| 9 | Queues, Sets, Maps | Ch. 20-21 | Add *CodeMaker* (computer) and *CodeBreaker* (human) |
| 10 | Recursion | Ch. 18 | Add *Game* and options to start new game, save game, load game and quit |
| 11 | Exam 2 Review | Prepare exam notes | Exam 2 (2nd class) |
| 12 | Basics of Functional Programming & Streams API | Class Notes | Implement game play |
| 13 | Project Consulting | *None* | If not already done, try adding drag-and-drop for the pegs |
| 14 | Java Networking | *None* | EXTRA CREDIT: Be able to swap so that you are the *CodeMaker* and the computer is the *CodeBreaker* |
| 15 | Project Consulting | *None* | EXTRA CREDIT: Add a server to that two people can play over the Internet |
